1. Topic selection
If you decide to write about a topic that nobody is interested in, you’re going to struggle to get traffic, no matter how good your content is.
So how can you get a good idea of which topics to write about?
Reading a lot of other blogs and forums can be a great way to start, but there are also a bunch of tools that will help you here, for example:
Google Trends – This will show you a graph of how interest has increased/decreased over time.
BuzzSumo – This tool will show you which topics are generating the most social shares.
SEMrush  – With this tool you can find out exactly what keywords your competitors are ranking for in Google and get an estimate of how much traffic those keywords can bring in.
The important thing here is to ensure that the topics you choose fit with your content strategy and are focused on helping your target audience.
Matching your audience up with the right topic is a huge first step in winning the battle for attention online.
Now that you’ve decided on a topic and content type, it’s time to think about how you can position your content to stand out from all the rest.
The reality is that there are probably a bunch of posts on other blogs that are talking about something similar.
The key is finding that element that separates your content from all of the rest.
That might mean finding a unique angle, including more depth, adding more detail, improving usability or just giving away more information.
It’s good practice to update your old content when possible.
Why?
It will improve the user experience and help you get more traffic.
When content becomes outdated, it becomes less helpful for users and chances are that it won’t rank as high in search engines anymore (freshness is a ranking factor).
It’s a good idea to prioritize which blog posts you update, so you could try one of the following:
Look in your analytics and identify content that doesn’t get as much search traffic as it used to
Check your Google Webmaster Tools account to find keywords you’re ranking for at the top of page two which could do with a boost
Don’t just update the information, also consider how you can streamline the user experience of the post and genuinely make it more helpful.
Once the post is ready you could simply publish it as a new post under the same URL or choose to publish under a new URL (and add a 301 redirect from the old URl to the new one).
Note: if your post is already getting traffic from Google you may want to stick with the existing URL and if you do change the URL, you will lose most social share counts (e.g. # of tweets won’t be visible).
It’s also important to ensure that you promote this post as much as possible; you’ll get more traffic from social media, search engines and other blog’s if you do.
Tip
Repurpose your content for another audience
Repurposing your content is a great way to gain access to another audience.
The reality is that we all prefer different mediums to learn. I prefer written content, but others may prefer audio or video.
It’s also worth considering infographics and Slideshare presentations too.
A great example of this in action is the post I mentioned as an example for group interviews.
With the help of 24Slides and Niall from TweakYourBiz, it was converted into an infographic and published by TweakYourBiz.
Design matters – when your site’s design is clear and crisp, people will want to keep coming back to it.
You may find yourself being mentioned on other blogs and websites as an example to follow when done rigt.
The great thing is that you don’t need to be a designer or developer to have an impressive blog design.
So if you use WordPress, you’re in luck because there are so many impressive themes out there.
Sure, you could use a free theme and there are some decent ones about but the best tend to be paid.